>> Kyle Simpson: So excercise four.
You're given an empty
implementation of pick numbers and
asked to implement the logic as described.
So you need to keep it pure other than of
course the fact that there is randomness.
Need to keep it pure and
have it generate a new lottery number each
times it's called adding it to the list.
But it needs to keep that
list in sorted order and
also make sure there's no duplicates.
So this was the setup given,
lotteryNum will do that generation for
you, generate numbers in
the range of 1 to 58.
And then pick number is the function
you wanted to implement and
lucky lottery numbers is the variables.
It's the list that you
want to add stuff into.
[COUGH] So a couple of things we're gonna
wanna pass in luckyLottertNumbers instead
of have pickNumbers automatically assuming
that because that would be a side effects.
So for sure we're gonna wanna
pass in luckyLotteryNumbers, but
then what we talked about
before was if we didn't
see the implementation of pickNumber here,
we might wonder whether or not somebody
was going to mutate that list out from
underneath us, which would be a bad thing.
So we could increase the reasonability
of this code, the trustability,
by using object.freeze on
our luckyLotteryNumbers.
Now there is,
>> Kyle Simpson: That is then,
since it's not gonna be creating
the side effects in there,
we're gonna need to save that
result into another variable.
Now at this point, I like to just
overwrite luckyLotteryNumbers,
with the return result.
Because I'm explicitly saying it's okay
for you to give me that list back, and
I'm saying very specifically
I know the list is updating.
It's in a contained way it's updating,
only in this for loop, that sort of thing.
Functional programmers like to use consts,
because they don't like
to reassign to stuff.
So a functional programmer actually
would have probably modeled this
as a list operation, like a map or
something like that,
where they wouldn't have
needed to worry about it.
But this is one of the reasons why I
dislike the const keyword because I think
it unnecessarily handcuffed me here.
I would've had to have some other location
to store all the intermediary versions of
that luckyLotteryNumbers.
Maybe in some temp variable or something.
So, I'm just gonna go ahead and
reassign my list each time and
then I know at the end that my
list is ready to print out.
So, let's start defining pickNumber,
we want to receive a list.
Now first things first
regardless of whether or
not that was passed in as immutable or
not, we wanna treat it as immutable.
So we wanna make a new list of numbers.
I'm just gonna call it nums and we're for
sure gonna wanna return that list of
numbers.
>> Kyle Simpson: Now we are only
responsible for calling lotteryNum once
because that's all that pickNumber does.
It's just supposed to add
one number to our list.
But we do need to make sure that the
number that we choose is not already in
the list list,
rather than add it to the list and
have to unique the list and
do it again or something.
We wanna check to make sure that
it's not already in the list.
So that could be done with
some simple looping logic.
Basically generate a new lottery number,
and if it's in the list, do it again, and
do it again until we get a lottery
number that's not already in the list.
Your flavor of that
might look a different.
I'm gong to use a do while loop.
So my while condition is gonna be; while
the number that I'm about to generate
is not in nums already.
I'm sorry, while it is in nums,
so nums.indexOf the number
that I just generated is greater than or
equal to 0 or
not equal to -1.
>> Kyle Simpson: How
are we you wanna check for?
But we wanna make sure that we're gonna
keep looping if we found that number.
So, I'm gonna have that variable here and
I'm going to just generate
the new lottery number.
So that loop's gonna loop over, and
no matter how many times it has to run,
it's gonna run until we generate a number
that's not already in the list, and
then exit.
>> Kyle Simpson: Now that
I know that I have that number,
I need to add to my list,
since I am fully in
control of the nums array,
mutating that list is
perfectly reasonable.
If that array were not something
I was fully in control of,
I would instead want to
concatenate onto that list and
maybe save it into some other variable or
something.
That way I wasn't mutating
somebody else's value.
So either of those two ways works.
This way is less performant.
And the reason why I don't wanna
do less performant is because
I'm fully in control of that value so
it doesn't matter to the outside world.
It might matter to the readability
of my picNumber function, but
it won't matter to the outside world.
So, there's a trade-off to be made,
do I care about the performance?
Let's assume that I do,
that I wanna make sure that this
runs as efficiently as possible.
So, we can just mutate the num's RI.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
then return the nums.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
if I test that code over in
a browser in the console.
Did I type it wrong?
Lottery known there we go.
>> Speaker 2: I don't think you're
assigning the list to nums yet either.
>> Kyle Simpson: Maybe not.
All right,
cause I started that's a good point.
I meant to come back to that.
So I started out with an empty list,
then I said, well,
am I gonna copy over the list into nums?
Or should I just start nums
out as a copy of the list?
That's a simpler way of doing it, so
rather than start out with an empty list,
I'm gonna copy over list and
make that be the initial value for nums.
So I'm gonna say list.slice,
that's how I copy an array.
There's multiple ways to copy, but
slice will make me a new copy of an array.
It's a shallow copy but
a copy nonetheless.
>> Kyle Simpson: Now, the final thing that
the read me said was make sure that those
numbers are sorted in ascending order.
So I need to make sure
to sort the nums list.
So I'm gonna say nums.sort
>> Kyle Simpson: And a quick and
dirty way of sorting,
is to do that subtraction.
You could have done your if statements
if you wanted to write your own sort.
If you use the built in sort,
understand that the built in sort is
going to default to
lexical graphic sorting,
which means that the number one
would sort after the number ten.
It's not what you want, so
to do a numeric sort you do need to
actually do a numerical creation like
that or do your if statements so
you can just use the build in comparative.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
let's try that again,
>> Kyle Simpson: Run it again.
I'll just run it a few times and
visually verify that I'm always getting
a sorted list with no duplicates.